['Admission Date: 8/18/2006']
[]
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Wiest is an 83-year-old woman with multiple medical problems including CAD status post CABG , diabetes mellitus , CHF ( EF 55% ) and atrial fibrillation who presented with hypotension , likely secondary to sepsis from right lower extremity cellulitis. She developed the right lower extremity cellulitis one month ago. Two days prior to admission , pt developed worsening erythema , edema and tenderness along with chills and sweats. She was brought into the emergency room on 11/0/06 and was found to be hypotensive with a systolic blood pressure in the 80s. She was given IV fluids and started on vancomycin , aztreonam , and clindamycin , but remained hypotensive. She was started on dopamine , Levophed and vasopressin as well as Decadron. Surgery was consulted for biopsy as to rule out the possibility of necrotizing fascitis. A CT of her lower extremity was done in the ED and she was admitted to the MICU. Pt's blood cultures grew group A streptococcus. Her wound culture grew group A strep and E. coli. Pt was also dx with a klebseilla UTI. Her antibiotics were changed to vancomycin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl. Her blood pressure improved and on the day of transfer to the floor on 4/15/06 , she was noted to be oliguric , presumably due ATN secondary to hypotension. Her urine output continued to drop and she developed a metabolic acidosis with a bicarbonate of 10. Her lactic acid at that point was 4.4. Her ABG was: 7. 8/23/98 and she was transferred back to the MICU. From a renal perspective , ARF was less likely to be post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis because of the timing of her strep infection. She had no hypertension or WBC casts. The UA was positive for hematuria. She had low complement levels , so there was some question of HUS after group B strep infection , although there were no schistocytes on her smear. The pt was aneuric on admission to the MICU and she started renal replacement therapy. Her urine output recovered and was greater than 800 mL daily while in the ICU. However , by the day of transfer to the floor on 9/27/06 , her urine output started to decrease and she started intermittent dialysis via a tunneled LIJ catheter. The renal team followed her closely and her meds were renally dosed. Her vancomycin was dosed by level. In terms of her hypertension , her blood pressure has normalized and her beta-blocker is being titrated upwards. From a cardiac perspective , the pt's troponin hit a high of 0.87 in the setting of septic shock. She was evaluated by MMMC cardiology , and this was felt to be consistent with demand ischemia. She has actually been asymptomatic from a cardiac standpoint. She was continued on daily aspirin. Her LDL was 63 and a statin was started. She will actually need her fasting lipids checked once her acute illness has passed and her LDL goal is less than 70. The patient has a history of AFIB on Coumadin. Her INR goal is 2-3. Her INR is drifting down. She is off of Coumadin because she has several lines that needed to be pulled , including a right subclavian. The hemodialysis catheter will either be removed , if she has improved urine output , or a more permanent type of access will be placed. She will be on prophylactic heparin t.i.d. for DVT prophylaxis when her INR hits 1.5. From a hematologic perspective , the patient initially had thrombocytopenia on admission. There was some concern for DIC , as there was a very quick rise in her INR. Fibrinogen; however , was normal and the INR has since stabilized. She has persistent thrombocytopenia , although her platelet count is recovering. Her platelet factor 4 antibody was negative. There was no clear precipitant other than sepsis. She has a normocytic anemia with a large drop in hematocrit since admission and there was some concern for hemolysis with the rising bilirubin , low haptoglobin with multiple immature erythrocytes , but no schistocytes were seen on manual diff. She did require two units of packed red blood cells on this admission. Her hematocrit and platelets did drop on 1/26/06 as the steroids were being tapered off. Her direct Coombs was negative. Haptoglobin was within normal limits. Medications causing her thrombocytopenia like Seroquel and heparin were stopped. From a pulmonary standpoint , she is oxygenating and ventilating well and not requiring any supplemental O2. She started tube feeds on 5/15/06 with some marked hyperglycemia and also steroids for her hypotension contributing to her hyperglycemia. She was actually started on an IV insulin protocol in the ICU for better control and then was transitioned to NPH insulin plus regular insulin as well as a regular insulin sliding scale with good effect. Her home regimen was previously Lantus 25 units SC daily. Her TSH was within normal limits and she will continue levothyroxine. The patient developed a pain in her left fourth finger during this admission and the PIP joint was tapped on 1/26/06 by rheumatology. The appearance of the fluid was consistent with gout. She improved with steroids. Her right shoulder ultrasound showed a small effusion , which was unlikely to be infectious per radiology. She was started on Decadron 4 mg p.o. q.6h. , and only has mild , residual pain. From a GI perspective , pt's LFTs rose on 2/2/06 with peak ALT of 122 , T bili of 8.7 , and alkaline phosphatase of 196. She had a rising INR ( off of Coumadin ) consistent with hepatic injury and hepatocellular dysfunction. Her abdominal CT was unremarkable. GI was consulted. The etiology was unclear and the differential diagnosis was drug related liver injury versus infection or shock liver , and less likely , fatty liver disease. Her hepatitis serologies are negative and Tylenol has been held since 2/2/06 . Flagyl and clindamycin were discontinued on 5/15/06 , and her LFTs trended down. AMA was negative. ASMA was pending at the time of this dictation. From a neurologic point of view , the patient initially required Dilaudid PCA for pain with her legs. Now , she is comfortable on a fentanyl patch with Dilaudid boluses. Seroquel was started for sedation and that was actually stopped because of thrombocytopenia. From a dermatologic standpoint , she has had left lower extremity venostasis ulcers. She has a right lower extremity arterial insufficiency ulcer. She was seen by wound care. Vascular surgery requested that she have ABIs and assessment of her vascular flow once her acute illness has passed. For nutrition , the patient started tube feeds through an NG tube given her prolonged sedation. She will need to continue to improve her nutritional status. A speech and swallow evaluation was done on 2/4/07 and she has been approved for oral , soft diet. In terms of access , pt has a right subclavian left IJ hemodialysis catheter. She had a left radial artery line that was discontinued on 5/15/06 . The right subclavian will be removed when her INR is 1.5 and the hemodialysis catheter will either be removed or replaced with more permanent access depending on her urine output. For prophylaxis , she is on Nexium. She does not have pneumo boots on because of cellulitis and heparin was held with thrombocytopenia , now will be restarted on 2/4/07 or when her INR is 1.5 rather.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Diabetes mellitus type II on insulin , CAD status post CABG ( 1998 ). The right saphenous vein was harvested for surgery. Since that time , she has had baseline swelling and edema in the right lower extremity , CHF with diastolic dysfunction , EF 55% in August 2004 , dry weight is 150 pounds per the patient. Atrial fibrillation on Coumadin. Sick sinus syndrome , status post permanent pacemaker placement in March 2006 complicated by hemothorax requiring thoracoscopy. Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.7 , gout , osteoarthritis , status post left total knee replacement in 1995 , status post right total knee replacement in 1990 , hypothyroid , osteoporosis , and chronic hearing loss.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin causes red welts. This is the only allergy that the patient endorses. Cephalosporin , unknown reaction. Question for quinolones , unknown reaction , but the patient have been taking levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin in the past without a problem. Sulfa and Bactrim , unknown reaction. Codeine unknown reaction.
